
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="places">Places</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=ensulasia" class="wikilink1" title="ensulasia">Ensulasia</a> is a continent on <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=emptylink" class="wikilink2" title="emptylink" rel="nofollow">emptyLink</a> surrounded by a large and seemingly endless sea. It is not known whether there are other landmasses beyond, as the sea monsters that live in the deep oceans prevent any ships from being able to travel any significant distance.
The capital of Ensulasia, in the province of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=emptylink" class="wikilink2" title="emptylink" rel="nofollow">emptyLink</a> in the south west, is <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=places:tharmouth" class="wikilink1" title="places:tharmouth">Tharmouth</a>. This is where the empire is based and where they have the most influence.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Places&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;places&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-475&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="regions">Regions</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The continent of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=ensulasia" class="wikilink1" title="ensulasia">Ensulasia</a>, due to the size, spans many different climates, from the grasslands in the south west, the mountains that divide the continent and the dense jungle to the south of them. The capital of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=places:tharmouth" class="wikilink1" title="places:tharmouth">Tharmouth</a> which is where the empire is based, is in the south west of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=ensulasia" class="wikilink1" title="ensulasia">Ensulasia</a> and is where they hold the majority of their influence and power. Smaller independent groups have claimed much of the north of the continent beyond the dense jungle and mountains. Moving to the north is very difficult due to the terrain, and the few crossing points on the mountains are held by northern groups who hold can defend them with ease. The north is an area for those who wish not to be under the ruling of the empire but it is not easy to reach so most civilians cannot attempt it.
</p>

<p>
The further from the capital, the less of an influence the empire has and there is an unofficial border where those beyond it do not tend to consider themselves under the empires control at all. Their is no strict border where the jurisdiction of the empire ends as they consider themselves to have power over the whole continent. In reality this is not at all the case but the people who live within proximity to the capital are rarely aware of this. The south and south west of the continent is where the highest concentration of developed settlements is. Throughout the rest of Ensulasia the majority of the people live in small clusters of houses and villages.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Regions&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;regions&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;476-&quot;} -->