
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="the_old_folk">The Old Folk</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
The Old Folk are the most prevalent group of travelers in <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=ensulasia" class="wikilink1" title="ensulasia">Ensulasia</a>. The name &#039;The Old Folk&#039; is a nickname given to them by the citizens of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=ensulasia" class="wikilink1" title="ensulasia">Ensulasia</a> due to their continuation of the old ways. Their culture is based around maintaining the traditional way of life where magic is at the centre of their society and daily routines. They began after the time of the outlawing of magic when they refused to part with their way of life. Rebels for a while and still hunted by the state, they move from location to location to evade capture. Their numbers now are far fewer than when they originally formed due to their refusal to let outsiders in, even to breed, as well as the many <a href="#raids_on_the_old_folk" title="guilds_and_factions:the_old_folk ↵" class="wikilink1">raids</a> from the state they have fallen victim to over the years.
</p>

<p>
Locating the Old Folk is no easy feat (intentionally) but they spend the majority of their time in the forested areas through the center of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=ensulasia" class="wikilink1" title="ensulasia">Ensulasia</a> where the trees and hills can provide some protection from the elements as well as hide their whereabouts for a bit longer than the plains to the south.
</p>

<p>
Even though other leaders have risen since the civil war, most of whom allow the use of magic, many Old Folk continue their lives as travelers. This is in part because many of their groups are unaware of political changes but also many of the Old Folk no longer wish to align themselves with any self-proclaimed leader. They generally prefer now to avoid the volatility of politics and leadership which they believe can cause more turmoil. They are generally content to continue their travelling culture and decide for themselves what they can and can&#039;t do.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;The Old Folk&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;the_old_folk&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-1674&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="raids_on_the_old_folk">Raids on The Old Folk</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Due to their usage of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=magic" class="wikilink1" title="magic">magic</a> (a now forbidden art) raids from the state have not been uncommon throughout history. The Old Folk tend to endure as, due in part to their travelling nature, they are hard to pin down. At one point in their history, a large ambush was set up at a location they were arriving at (it is thought one of the younger Old Folk was persuaded by the empire to betray them in return for gold and riches) and many of their numbers were executed. Those that escaped agreed to split into smaller travelling groups, as they are today, so they cannot be stopped all at once.<br/>
<br/>

They are not an aggressive people and wish simply to maintain what they have but do not take kindly to outsiders, especially those that ask questions. Raids on the Old Folk have been rarer in recent years despite their failure to comply with the laws on magic. They are not seen as an outward threat and the state now tend to expend their resources elsewhere. Some fear however that the state may be preparing to mount an even larger attack and stop the the Old Folk for good…
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Raids on The Old Folk&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;raids_on_the_old_folk&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1675-&quot;} -->