
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="prompts">Prompts</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Prompts&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;prompts&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-23&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="prompts_from_u_mansardian">Prompts from /u/Mansardian</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Prompts can be found <a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/worldbuilding/comments/als11s/100_worldbuilding_prompts/" class="urlextern" title="https://www.reddit.com/r/worldbuilding/comments/als11s/100_worldbuilding_prompts/" rel="nofollow">here</a>.
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Suppose I&#039;m transported to the most pleasant place in your world; where would I go for lodging, and what should I order off the menu?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Wandering through one of your world&#039;s cities, a thief steals my wallet. I report the incident to a local authority. Who would they be, and what will (Or won&#039;t) they do about my stolen wallet?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> I dive to the bottom of the sea. What wonders, treasures and curiosities will I find on the seabed?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Now stuck in your world, I would like to continue my studies. What university, academy or similar institution would I want to apply for? (Bonus question: Where would I actually end up studying?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> What strange beliefs do your peoples have about places lying beyond the known world? (Here be dragons!)</div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=ensulasia" class="wikilink1" title="ensulasia">Ensulasia</a> is surrounded on all sides by a vast and seemingly endless ocean. There is huge disparity in what is thought to be beyond this sea, if anything.</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Pets and mounts. Which are some of the interesting ones your world has? (Bonus question: For what are they used?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Days, Weeks, Months, Years. How are they measured and what are they called?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you give me the synopsis of one of your people&#039;s cultural/national epics? (The foundational myths.)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What do your common folk do for fun? (Bonus question: What does the elite think about this?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you tell me a tale that is fictional within your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> I want to travel from one edge of the known world to the other. How do I go about this, and is it possible?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you give me an example (or more) of differences in morality between people in our world and inhabitants of yours?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Zoos, Waterparks, Amusementparks. Do you have any equivalent?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What&#039;s the biggest, most beloved celebration of the year?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What&#039;s the latest fashion and/or what type of clothing never goes out of style?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> Can you tell me about the itinerant folk of your world? (Bonus: Why do they travel?)</div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> The most prevalent group of travellers are known to most as simply <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=guilds_and_factions:the_old_folk" class="wikilink1" title="guilds_and_factions:the_old_folk">the Old Folk</a>. Their culture is based around maintaining the traditional way of life where magic is at the centre of their society and daily routines. They began after the time of the banning of magic when they refused to part with their way of life. Rebels for a while and still hunted by the state, they move from location to location to evade capture. At one point in their history, a large ambush was set up at a location they were arriving at (it is thought one of the younger Old Folk was persuaded by the empire to betray them in return for gold and riches) and many of their numbers were executed. Those that escaped agreed to split into smaller travelling groups, as they are today, so they cannot be stopped all at once. They are not an aggressive people and wish simply to maintain what they have but do not take kindly to outsiders, especially those that ask questions. Raids on <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=guilds_and_factions:the_old_folk" class="wikilink1" title="guilds_and_factions:the_old_folk"> the Old Folk</a> have been rarer in recent years despite their failure to comply with the laws on magic. They are not seen as an outward threat and the state now tend to expend their resources elsewhere. Some fear however that the state may be preparing to mount an even larger attack and stop the <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=guilds_and_factions:the_old_folk" class="wikilink1" title="guilds_and_factions:the_old_folk"> the Old Folk</a> for good…</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> It&#039;s late at night and I&#039;m hungry, what food venues are still open?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Which arts are most appreciated in your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you tell me about your world&#039;s seven (or other number) wonders?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What&#039;s the closest your world has been to wholesale destruction? (Apocalypse)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you give the lyrics for a song from your world?(Alternative if you have no lyrics written: Can you tell me the meaning of one of your world&#039;s songs?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> How many people roam your world, and who do you count as &#039;people&#039; ?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you tell me a little something about your world&#039;s organized crime?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> I look above, what do I see?(What colour is the sky, what do the clouds look like, how many moons, can I see the stars?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What are the boundaries of what is magically possible?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Disease shaped our world, so what role have plagues and the like played in your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you give me some insults specific to your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What&#039;s the most valuable material in your world, and how is it used?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What will be served for a typical breakfast?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Where do people get the news? (Do they have an established media system, or is it word of mouth, or… ?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> From the christian cross to the nike icon, our world is filled with recognisable symbols. What are your world&#039;s most widespread symbols?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> How much of a career can a writer have in your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> I am in search of work. Where could, would and should I apply?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> I take a big shovel and start digging, what do I see? (Colour and substance of the ground. Worms, insects, other creatures, etcetera.)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> I&#039;m reading through the history books. Which names am I sure to come across?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Is it possible to enhance your body through means other than hitting the gym and eating well? (bio-augmentations, cybernetic implants, magical enhancements, or…?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> How is public sanitation taken care of? (Bathhouses, hot springs, sewage, public toilets, sewage disposal?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you explain one of your world&#039;s sports to me?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you tell me about your world&#039;s boogie man?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you describe the architectural styles of you world? (high/low, peaked/rounded, ornate/modest, open/closed etcetera)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you give me a linguistic overview of your world? (Language families, broad distribution, intelligibility, lingua franca, trade language, etcetera.)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What are your world&#039;s superstitions? (Bonus: Where do these beliefs come from?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you give me the descriptions of some of your world&#039;s cheeses?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What does an average household look like? (Is it a modern nuclear family, or a multigenerational feudal household? Do pets live inside?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> How are children treated in your world? (Until what age are they considered to be kids? Are children allowed to work? Can they vote? Are they considered people or property? Do daycares and schools exist? Has the concept of teenager/young adult been introduced in your world?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What do people in your world value most in a leader? (Strength? Kindness? Rationality?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What are some common names in your world? (Bonus: Why are they popular?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Is magic regulated in any way? (By the government, academia, religion, vigilantes, or…?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What is taken for granted in our world, that is desired in your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> I’ve spent quite some time in your world by now, and would like to settle down. How do I obtain a house?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> From knights of virtue to pirates on the seven seas, what types of people have been romanticized in your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> A complex series of murders has been committed, and it has become aware that the rank and file police won’t be able to solve it. Who is sent to solve the case? (And will they succeed in finding the killer?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you give me an overview of your world’s most popular beverages?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you describe your world in 10 words or less?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> How is light taken care of at night? (Candles, torches, electric. Who keeps them lit?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you give me a proverb or two (or more) from your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> I’m invited to the grandest event of the year. What is it, and what should I wear? (And what would I wear if I were a woman? Or another species? Or…)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What’s the greatest trick pulled in your world’s history? (You have free reign to determine what “great” entails)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> When broken down to its essence, what do the biggest religions in your world believe in? (Bonus: How do they treat eachother?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What about weddings? (Who officiates? Where are they typically held? How many people are invited? How significant is marriage in your world? What would be an ideal wedding?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">  A Jolly old man with elves and reindeer in tow comes riding into your world, bearing gifts. How does your world react?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The sight of a lit-up christmas tree makes me think of a warm home, and good food. What are some cultural touchstones in your world, that makes people think of warmth, merriment and so forth?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Is there anything your peoples eat and drink exclusively on days of celebration?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What symbolism do various colours have in your world’s cultures?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> *Ain’t no mountain high enough*… or is there? What are the greatest natural barriers in your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> I’ve spent some time in the city, and decide to travel to the countryside. How does life differ? (Specifically, how does life differ in ways I wouldn’t expect as an earth resident?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> If you were to travel to your world, what would you do? (Where would you work/live/go for a drink?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What’s the average lifestory of a wizard? (How did they start? Where were they taught? What did they do most their lives? Etcetera.)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Fireworks, parade balloons, contrail art and chinese lanterns. How do your peoples decorate the skies? (And why?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> How does a package or message arrive from one place to another?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you tell me about one of your world’s secret societies?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you give me an overview of what could be found in your world’s black markets?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">  What’s the most legendary artefact lusted for by adventurers and scholars alike?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can you tell me about the hermits of your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What&#039;s the currency of your world? (How did it come to be used? What preceded it?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Who or what&#039;s on top of the food chain?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What are your clowns, jokers, jesters and/or comedians mocking your world for?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Breakfast, second breakfast, elevenses… What are the eating times in your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Astronaut, fireman, rapper. What&#039;s the profession that your kids (and adults for that matter) tend to dream of becoming?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> A great calamity has occurred, be it fire, flooding or kaiju attack. Who is sent for clean-up and repair?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What sorts of headgear do people wear? (And why? Is it functional? Ceremonial? Prestigious?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Who’s making the big bucks in your world? (Bonus: What’s the difference between the old and newly rich?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Where, and by whom is healthcare taken care of? (What of specialized care? Dentistry, physical therapy, eye care, palliative care. And what of alternative medicine such as acupuncture and chiropractic care.)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> It’s been a long day at work, what would your people do to wind down? (Bonus: How does this differ between social classes?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What do your farmers (or your equivalent) harvest?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> How far does social mobility extend? (Can a lesser noble become a king? How about a merchant, or a miller?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Greasers, punks, goths and tunnel snakes who rule. What subcultures do rebellious youth join in your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What sort of armour and weaponry can I expect to find if I was inspecting the warriors of your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> How does the balance between civilization and nature hold up in your world? (Does one overwhelm the other? Do they struggle against, or compliment one another?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> How is gambling handled in your world? (Is it legal? Is it organized? Is it lucrative? Who or what controls the gambling scene? What’s the public perception on gambling?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What&#039;s the relation between mortal and divine? (Do both exist? What do you define as divine? Can one become the other? Is there anything the divine envies the mortal for?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> How are guilds, or your equivalent, treated, employed and regulated?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Who do the people of your world look to for wisdom and spiritual advice? (Are they a special class of people, a lifestyle, or perhaps simply the local elder?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Exclaves, coregions, condominiums and micronations. What political oddities can I find in your world?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What about funerals? (How are they performed? Who is invited? How significant are they? How are the dead honoured? What happens to their body? Are they given a stone, a cross, a…?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What will be served for a typical lunch and/or dinner?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> From Batavians to bikers. Who are the rough and tough folk to be wary of in your world? (And do the myths hold up?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What sort of biomes and landscapes are found on your world, that are rare or even alien to ours?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> I arrived to your world from ours 99 questions ago. By now I&#039;ve spent a lot of time in your world, but I&#039;ve become homesick. If I aired my grievances to the people of your world, would my story be believable to them? (What would the reaction be?)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> How do your people think the world began and will end? (Are they correct?)</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Prompts from \/u\/Mansardian&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;prompts_from_u_mansardian&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;24-&quot;} -->