
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="tharmouth">Tharmouth</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Tharmouth is the capital of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=ensulasia" class="wikilink1" title="ensulasia">Ensulasia</a> and the home of the empire. Originally a collections of small settlements, Tharmouth was the largest and therefore the name which was kept when they merged many years ago. The districts within Tharmouth still retain some names relating to the original settlements that formed the new city.
</p>

<p>
The city was once very integrated with the environment around it, consisting of mostly small wooden lodgings and shops with trees running through the streets. Since the reign of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=emptylink" class="wikilink2" title="emptylink" rel="nofollow">emptyLink</a> however, the industrialization of Tharmouth has been too fast to maintain this. Walking through Tharmouth now, it is possible to see the stark contrast in adjacent buildings built before and after the industrial boom of the past few decades. Contrary to many large cities, the center of Tharmouth (the old town) is the most rural and the city instead spread in size instead of any significant developments in the existing infrastructure.
</p>

<p>
Within the centre of Tharmouth, there are a number of shops and places to get food and drink. One of the more popular drinking establishments is <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=places:the_grey_dog" class="wikilink1" title="places:the_grey_dog">The Grey Dog</a>, owned by <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=people:frinly" class="wikilink1" title="people:frinly">Frinly</a>, a friendly, if a bit odd, old man.
</p>

<p>
Tharmouth was founded on the mouth of the <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=places:river_tharst" class="wikilink2" title="places:river_tharst" rel="nofollow">river Tharst</a> in order to improve connections with other settlements around <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=ensulasia" class="wikilink1" title="ensulasia">Ensulasia</a>. Nowadays, the river is used largely for transport between the empire strongholds along the south coast as well as serving as a port for fishermen to travel in and out of the city.
</p>

</div>
