
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="ensulasia">Ensulasia</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Ensulasia is a fantasy world where <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=magic" class="wikilink1" title="magic">magic</a> and the flow of the magical energy through nature is a key element in society.
</p>

<p>
The use of magic was banned by the empire after the murder of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=emptylink" class="wikilink2" title="emptylink" rel="nofollow">emptyLink</a> at the hands of some dark mages.
The line of emperors were largely respected by the people of Ensulasia until the banning of magic. This was such a major change to their way of life and practically halted many religions. The banning of magic started a civil war and fractured the south of the continent (once held entirely by the empire).
</p>

<p>
Many self-proclaimed rulers arose after the civil war and now the empire&#039;s influence is largely contained to the province of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=emptylink" class="wikilink2" title="emptylink" rel="nofollow">emptyLink</a> where they are based in the capital of <a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=places:tharmouth" class="wikilink1" title="places:tharmouth">Tharmouth</a>. An outsider in the areas of Ensulasia ruled by the empire would likely see happy and content citizens but behind the curtains the empire now rule with an iron fist in a velvet glove. The emperor now in charge is a paranoid man, and despite no admission of such occurences, those who oppose or speak out against the empire, or even are not thought to be entirely happy with their reign, often disappear unexpectedly.
</p>

<p>
The lives of people in Ensulasia has been closely tied to nature for generations. When the latest emperor came to power, he was more interested in creating an industrial powerhouse from the people and put the consideration of the natural environment around them to the background.
</p>

</div>
