
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="forest_fire">Forest Fire</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Amber tendrils licked the night sky. Sparks of golden light danced between the trees. There would be nothing left. Was it better that way? Movement. A lone deer dashed past on his right, eyes wide and glowing. Fight or flight, he supposed. Natures method of self-preservation. Do you run or do you stand your ground? Akna was not a coward. He stood, entranced by the flames. The heat was relentless. A tree collapsed beside him, showering him in sparks and shaking him from his stupor. He could no longer see where it ended. Where there was no fire there was smoke, and where there was no smoke there was nothing. Nothing but the smouldering remains of what had been.
</p>

<p>
<a href="/wiki/doku.php?id=people:akna" class="wikilink2" title="people:akna" rel="nofollow">Akna</a> had always been fascinated with fire, much to his families concern. He would sit by the hearth for hours, watching the flames. Watching them engulf the wood, the coal, his sisters dolls, the rat he found beneath the cupboard. His parents had refused to light the hearth since. Years later, when his friends told him of how they had learned that it was possible to spit fire with words, his passion was reignited. Akna would disappear for hours at a time and practice in the woods behind the cabin, with an old book and some dry twigs. A boy he knew had said the book had belonged to his father. Now it belonged to Akna. The book was singed at the edges and the pages as brittle as dry leaves but the abilities it promised absorbed him entirely. Night after night, Akna practiced with no result. Today had been different. Today the smoke he breathed was his own. The flames where his children. The heat was his soul.
</p>

<p>
The destruction was immense. It was terrifying.
</p>

<p>
It was beautiful.
</p>

</div>
